---
layout: post
title: "Digital TV (DTV)"
workshop_name: 2008 Helsinki 
workshop_slug: 2008-helsinki
categories: [2008-helsinki]
author: Maria Heikkilä
---
<span style="font-size: 12.7px; line-height: 19px; font-family: Helvetica" class="Apple-style-span">I watch quite a lot of tv so I chose it to my brief.</span>
<div>
<span style="font-size: 12.7px; line-height: 19px; font-family: Helvetica" class="Apple-style-span"><br />
</span>
</div>
<div>
<span style="font-size: 12.7px; line-height: 19px; font-family: Helvetica" class="Apple-style-span">Digital tv is a telecommunication system for broadcasting and receiving moving pictures and sound by digital signals. It is said that this systems allows for example better picture quality and better sound. </span>
<div>
<br />
</div>
<div>
<span style="font-size: 12.7px; line-height: 19px; font-family: Helvetica" class="Apple-style-span">Many countries around the world currently operate a simulcast</span><span style="font-size: 12.7px; line-height: 19px; font-family: Helvetica" class="Apple-style-span"> service where a broadcast is made available to viewers in both analog and digital at the same time but <span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: normal; font-family: arial" class="Apple-style-span">Finland moved from analog tv-broadcasting into a digital 31.8.2007 and stopped analog broadcasting at once. Finns had to buy digital transmitters or a digi-tv. The change didn't happen in harmony, especially older people and people who lived in hinterland protested. What's the big fuss?</span></span>
</div>
<div>
<br />
</div>
<div>
In the end of the year 2007 there was a rebellion spirit in Finns and thousands of tv-viewers cancelled their tv-licence and YLE, Finnish Broadcasting Company was in an economical crisis. 
</div>
<div>
<br />
<div>
<div>
After the change some of the worst nightmares in hinterlands became true; the quality of the picture was a catastrophe. Pixellated picture, texts didn't follow the speech, substandard sound etc. There are also troubles in urban areas.
</div>
<div>
<br />
</div>
<div>
My brief is to study this even comical area and to design a critical or neutral poster on the topic using Nodebox in creating random noise and disorder. The poster might handle interaction between the TV-watcher and the DTV, is the interaction with TV still primitive, consisting switching the TV on/off, adjusting volume and contrast and channel surfing?
</div>
<div>
<br />
</div>
<div>
The final image might be kind of infographics; forexample a map of networks (like Mindmap) or the poster might consist of distorted images, depending of my point of view. Or both?
</div>
<div>
<br />
</div>
<div>
<br />
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>

