---
layout: post
title: "Lesson graph - sample"
workshop_name: 2008 Helsinki 
workshop_slug: 2008-helsinki
categories: [2008-helsinki]
author: Mikko Mutanen
assets:
  -
    filename: lesson_graph_sample.png
    type: image
---
...
<div>
 
</div>
<div>
 
</div>
<div>
 
</div>
<div>
 
</div>
<div>
-----
</div>
<div>
On thursday, I put some time into modifying the nodebox graph script for visualizing all the Kanji in a single lesson (23) of the Heisig book. White background is ideal for printing. 
</div>
<div>
<br />
</div>
<div>
A new feature is the small black type that displays the origin of all individual nodes. Very useful for knowing, which primitive is the root for the individual characters. 
</div>
<div>
<br />
</div>
<div>
Here's a zoomed in screenshot sample from the output PDF.
</div>
<div>
<br />
</div>
<div>
I will build 2 detailed examples of lesson graphs, and put them in as a central image of my final poster. The poster will be information graphics aimed for students of the language (according to the new poster brief I wrote yesterday), so I have a challenge in making it visually appealing with all the information and detail in there.
</div>
<div>
<br />
</div>
<div>
Maybe forming a figure, or a recognizable shape out of the individual lesson graphs ... or illustrating/retouching the graph by including ready-made illustrations in the graph algorithm or slicing them in later by hand in Illustrator.
</div>
<div>
<br />
</div>
<div>
I had an other idea (better, I think) about an inspirational poster, communicating both the Heisig method and the complexity and beauty of the Kanji graphs in a more concrete image, bordering on poster art. It would have Chinese mountains in it. But that wouldn't complete the brief I just wrote (dang, what a limitation ..), so I have to leave it out, or rewrite the brief again.
</div>
<div>
<br />
</div>
<div>
Btw, rewriting the brief is an essential part of the design process, according to the Design Methods book. Because research, and the creative transformation stage almost always redefine the original goals :: revealing what should really be done to reach the goals, as opposed to what you were told to do in the brief to reach the goals. Doesn't that make sense? I think it does.
</div>
<div>
<br />
</div>
<div>
The brief should be frozen before moving on to production, of course. But that shouldn't happen too soon in the process.
</div>

